# Get to Know Pristine


## Life
Pristine Joy Dagandan was born on June 22, 1999 in Cagayan de Oro, Philippines. Her father, Ruben Dagandan, was a Chemical Engineer but now works as an assembler for carseat adjusters at Brose Canada since 2007. Her mother,Jocelyn (nee Usares) was a registered nurse in the Philippines, she's currently working as a practical nurse at McGarrel Place Nursing Home and is pursuing to get her license to be a registered nurse. Pristine is of Spanish heritage as the Philippines was once colonized by Spaniards for more than 300 years. She has a younger sister named Crystal Eliana Dagandan, who enjoys baking bread from scratch and is currently in her freshmen year of high school. Pristine spent her early decades in the city she was born in with her closest cousins before coming to Canada in 2010 at the age of 11 years old. She has lived in London, Ontario ever since. 

## Career Ventures
Ever since a young child, Pristine enjoyed story telling. She was never talkative with others unless she was telling a story whether it was fiction or something that happened that day. She enjoyed writing them down and thought that maybe she could be an amazing writer. But because she only kept those written stories to herself, no one really supported her of that dream until it just stayed forgotten in the past.

Another thing Pristine did at a young age was playing with wooden building blocks. Life was tough in the Philippines, hence why they weren't fortunate enough to buy Lego sets. She was very discriplined and always kept everything back to where they belong. She didn't talk much when she was little either. She had always been fond of drawing and painting but because of her struggle with Palmar Hyperhidrosis, her pages would always smudged and was difficult to be consistent with that skill. At age 12, she became interested in architecture when she first saw the Absolute World, otherwise called the Marilyn Monroe Towers, when visiting Mississauga. She did plenty of research about becoming an architect and decided to build a career in that field. Throughout her high school career, she took every course that would lead her to that opportunity in hopes that she gets accepted into University of Waterloo.

Unfortunately, nearing the end of her senior year, Pristine struggled with her mental health. She was not able to make a portfolio or scheduled an interview for her application. Thus, decided to stay for an extra year after her graduation in 2017. During grade 13, she was able to join a Europe trip to Prague, Austria and Germany using her saved up money from working part-time at Tim Hortons. Pristine was able to expand her horizon more and learned a lot about architecture from different cultures. However, at the same time she was also debating if she should go into Tourism. As the year progressed, she realized that she wasn't getting any better mentally and dropped out of grade 13. She was in a very dark place but also at the same didn't want to lose hope. She lost her confidence for University of Waterloo and only applied at Fanshawe College for Architectural Technology. In Fall 2018, Pristine started her first year of Architectural Technology. She had many plans ahead of her and was very determined for success. By her second year, she dropped out and worked at Nestle Canada as a seasonal worker. In 2020, Pristine have been accepted into a new program and is now attending Interactive Media Design.

## Hobbies
Pristine went to elementary school at Blessed Sacrament. Despite her social anxieties, she had been involved in a few school plays as one of the back-up dancers and singer. She voiced the White Rabbit in Alice in Wonderland in grade 8. Pristine performed as a singer in a few talent shows as well while also playing the guitar. She even tried becoming a YouTube sensation but was too preoccupied with schoolwork. In 2013, Pristine went to John Paul II Catholic Secondary School. There, she was able to challenge her art skills more during her art classes. She used to be very active and enjoyed running as a sport that she even tried out for the Track Team and Cross-country. Unfortunately, she didn't make it through the cut due to her sprained ankle from a skateboarding incident the previous summer when she wanted to learn because of her dad who enjoys it. She even received a skateboard for her 15th birthday. She pursued art more seriously and was also in academic excellence. Pristine also attempted to join Glee club but was not able to maintain staying due to the people in it that were not very welcoming. She still was able to perform in many talent shows and multicultural festivals. Her most notable performance was in 2015, when she formed a Filipino dance group of 14 people called "The Makabayans". She made most of the props including making the costumes. In 2017, three of her best artworks were displayed at her school's Art's Night. There she also did a singing number on her guitar. On her quiet days, she prefers to stay in her room and just read novels after novels. Her favourite book is "To Kill a Mockingbird" but her all time favourite are the Grimm Brother's Fairy Tales. 

## Activism
Pristine is a mental health and LGBTQ+ advocate. At a young age she had always felt different from everyone, which lead to her getting bullied more often. She came out as bisexual to her friends but not to her family considering their strict religious views, but she does not think it's a big deal and necessary for her to identify herself. Two of her cousins, one who is very close to her, came out as homosexual. That's where she got her courage and wants to stand for others as well. She was not active in the dating life before because of her more important priorities, but in 2019 she started dating her first boyfriend, Nicholas Keeley, whom she met from Architectural Technology. They enjoy watching movies and making food, lots of food. And he's been really patient, that year Pristine finally reached out for counselling and psychiatry. She's been diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD), as well as severe anxiety and depressive disorder. She wants everyone who is suffering to know that you are not weak, and that you are not your illnesses.